---
title: "New year resolutions: 2019"
date: 2018-12-13
layout: post
---

In France we have new years resolutions. Usually I don't say anything because I tend to
forget them. However, as I am writing more and more online, I wonder if writing some
resolutions here would be a good incentive to meet them... I believe in setting my own
goals, would it be personal goals or personal goals, to avoid the routine. So let's do it.


## Read more books, with broader topics
2018 has been a good year for me. I read a bunch of great Scifi books. These are truly inspirational,
but I feel I am always getting my ideas from the same source. In 2019, I aim to read at least:
- Fiction book not related to scifi
- Non-fiction that does not relate to technology
- A book that seems totally at odds with my life
- A great classic
- Some engineering book about space engineering (yea!)

A few month ago, I read [Pachinko](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34051011-pachinko)
and it was an awesome read. I need to reiterate this experience next year.


## Finish my NES/Raspberry project
I want to complete my NES emulator and put it in a raspberryPi so that I can
play on my TV. The emulator does not need to be perfect but I want to run
at least:
- Super Mario Bros 3 (tough one)
- The Legend of Zelda
- Final Fantasy

There is still a long road to go but this kind of very concrete project is the
most awesome learning experience.

## Contribute to Open-source
I want to start sharing more the experience I get from work and personal projects.
Either it would be by contributing more to some projects on github or by writing
more on this blog.

## Get my Finance straight
Start saving that godamn money!

## Start a new aventure
This one is less concrete and more personal. I want to do something that really
matters to me and people around. Unspecified yet.


See you in one year!
